Update searching.md (#219)
ankitects/anki-manual: src/searching.md

<!-- toc -->

Anki's Browse screen and the Filtered Deck feature use a common method

> of searching for specific cards/notes. This method is also used in the search bar below "FSRS parameters" field.

Reviewer: At a minimum this needs an article -- below ***the*** "FSRS ... 

But I don't think it's quite fitting to call that a "search bar," because that suggests it returns a result to the user. I would suggest: 
`This method can also be used to adjust the scope of FSRS optimization.`

Reviewer: > Filtered decks don't give you a search result

They return a set of cards in the deck based on the filter, so I'd say they do give the user a search result. 

> do we really need to be technically correct?

Yes, that's pretty much the entire point of the manual.

Author: We are already using the word in the manual and in the FSRS tutorial. I added the 'bar' but I think it shouldn't be an issue.

Author: ```suggestion
of searching for specific cards/notes.  This method can also be used to adjust the scope of FSRS optimization. 
```

## Simple searches

When you type some text into the search box, Anki finds matching notes
and displays their cards. Anki searches in all fields of the notes, but

> does not search for tags (For information on how to search for tags, see [this section](##tags-decks-cards-and-notes) of the page). Some examples:

Reviewer: Needs corrections to capitalization and/or punctuation (and the syntax of the link, I think). 

If the text is to be updated, in the manual, "section" is mostly used to refer to Summary/TOC items, and "page" usually refers to another site (like the FAQ). It's defnitely not 100%, but it would be better to stick with it and move toward consistency and coherency. 

But I don't think it is necessary to change the line at all to add this link -- just use the current text: 
`does not search for tags (see [later in this section](#tags-decks-cards-and-notes) for how to search for tags).`

Author: ```suggestion
does not search for tags (see [later in this section](#tags-decks-cards-and-notes) to search for tags). Some examples:
```

`dog`\

> searches for "dog" - will match words like "doggy" and "underdog" too.

Author: The conjugation will feel consistent otherwise. In the very next phrase we say "will match words" as if to say "the search term will match words like...". It is only appropriate to use searches instead of search, to mean "this term searches for 'dog'. Using  "search" will make it sound like an imperative sentence, as in, "Do this" or "Search that", or a TV ad "use our new...".

> searches for "dog" - will match words like "doggy" and "underdog" too.

Reviewer: I see how that's another fair reading of it.

same as the above.

`"a dog"`\
finds notes with the exact sequence of characters "a dog" in them, such
as "atta dog", but not "dog a" or "adog".

`-"a dog"`\

> finds notes without the following sequence of characters: "a dog".

Reviewer: Since this is offered in contrast to the example above, better to mirror that line: 
`finds notes without the exact sequence of characters "a dog" in them.`

Author: I have mentioned below that some of this is intentional. This section/page of the manual has a lot of similar sounding sentences and it can quickly get boring to read through this. A little bit of variability, that catches the reader off guard, can draw their attention to what is written in the doc. I do value being consistent in formatting and else, but some amount of entropy is nice to have.

Reviewer: > some amount of entropy is nice to have.

In the manual, or in any technical writing? -- I strongly disagree. This isn't prose. Parallel phrasing is how you quickly and efficiently communicate similarity and subtle differences between things. 

Adding variability makes things harder for a reader to understand at-a-glance, and ruins the effect of contrasting the examples in the first place. Different wording/terminology should be used to signal for a reader that the manual is talking about about something different -- because that's the impression it gives.

Author: ```suggestion
finds notes without the exact sequence of characters "a dog" in them.
```

`d_g`\
finds notes with d, &lt;one character&gt;, g, like dog, dig, dug, and so on.

`d*g`\
finds notes with d, &lt;zero or more characters&gt;, g, like dg, dog, dung,
etc.

`w:dog`\

> searches for the word "dog" as opposed to a sequence of characters - will match "dog", but not "doggy"

Reviewer: (Comment about "searches" above.)

If "word boundary" needs to be defined, it seems better to do that without removing the phrase itself, because it is somewhat of a term of art in search syntax. 
`search for "dog" on a word boundary (as a whole word, not a sequence of characters in another word) - will match`

Author: In line 53 we use the term "word boundaries" and later we slowly transition to more frequent use of this. I don't think we really need to define word boundaries here. It is bit hard to define, and I think translators will find this sentence easier to deal with than your suggestion.

## Limiting to a field

You can also ask Anki to match only if a particular field contains some
text. Unlike the previous search examples, searching in fields requires an exact
match by default.

`front:dog`\
finds notes with a Front field of exactly "dog". A field that says "a
dog" will not match.

`"animal front:a dog"`\
finds notes where the "Animal Front" field is exactly "a dog". The double quotes are

> mandatory, see [this section](#matching-special-characters) of the page.

Reviewer: This line is fine as-is. If it needs clarification, as mentioned above, it should be consistent with uses of "section" and "page" in the manual.

Author: ```suggestion
mandatory, see [later in this section](#matching-special-characters).
```

`front:*dog*`\
finds notes where the Front field contains dog somewhere.

`front:`\
finds notes that have an empty Front field.

`front:_*`\
findd notes that have a non-empty Front field.

`front:*`\
finds notes that have a Front field, empty or not.

`fr*:text`\
finds notes in a field starting with "fr". Requires Anki 2.1.24+, AnkiMobile 2.1.60+, or AnkiDroid 2.17+.

## Tags, decks, cards and notes

`tag:animal`\
finds notes with the tag "animal", or subtags like "animal::mammal".

`tag:none`\
finds notes with no tags.

`tag:ani*`\

> finds notes with tags starting with ani.

Reviewer: Should add quotation marks as well, to match the other examples:
`finds notes with tags starting with "ani".`

Author: ```suggestion
finds notes with tags starting with "ani".
```
You can add the suggestions like this.

Reviewer: 👍 I'll try to remember that for next time.

`deck:french`\

> find cards in a deck called "French", or its subdecks like French::Vocab.

Reviewer: Should add quotation marks to subdeck name as well, to match the other examples:
`or its subdecks like "French::Vocab".`

Author: ```suggestion
find cards in a deck called "French", or its subdecks like "French::Vocab".
```

`deck:french -deck:french::*`\

> finds cards in French, but not subdecks.

Reviewer: Should add quotation marks as well, to match the other examples:
`finds cards in "French", but not its subdecks.`

Author: ```suggestion
finds cards in "French", but not its subdecks.
```

`deck:"french vocab"`\
searching when the deck name has a space.

`"deck:french vocab"`\

> same as earlier.

Reviewer: Since it is about physical space "earlier" doesn't fit here. 
Alternative A:
`same as above.`
Alternative B: combine the examples with one label for both. 
```
`deck:"french vocab"`\
`"deck:french vocab"`\
searching when the deck name contains a space.
```

Author: Google uses "earlier". Referance: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#above

`deck:filtered`\
filtered decks only.

`-deck:filtered`\
normal decks only.

`preset:"Default"`\
cards in all decks that use the 'Default' deck options preset.

> Requires Anki(Mobile) 23.10+, or AnkiDroid 2.17+.

Reviewer: I haven't seen anywhere else that Anki and AnkiMobile are collapsed into a single name like that. I don't think it makes it clear what we're talking about. 

The full list would be better:
`Requires Anki 23.10+, AnkiMobile 23.10+, or AnkiDroid 2.17+.`

I don't think it needs to be more succinct, but if nececessary, another option would be:
`Requires Anki or AnkiMobile 23.10+, or AnkiDroid 2.17+.`

Author: I think I missed updating some `Anki 23.10+` to `Anki(Mobile) 23.10+` but now I'm not sure whether that should be done. Everytime AnkiMobile is mentioned the version number is usually different from Anki. @dae how should this case be handled?

Author: ```suggestion
Requires Anki 23.10+, AnkiMobile 23.10+ or AnkiDroid 2.17+.
```

`card:forward`\

> searches for cards with card type named "Forward".

Reviewer: I think this one, along with 160 and 164, should be changed from "search/es for" to "finds" -- to match the other examples. 

It sounds a tiny bit off to say "cards with card type named "Forward"." That phrasing sounds like a card has multiple types, like we might talk about a note "with" certain card types, not like card type is an inherent property of the card.

There are different alternatives for this, but I can't necessarily explain why they sound better to me. 
`cards of card type "Forward".`
`cards that are card type "Forward".`
`cards with card type "Forward".` [Interestingly, maybe it's just the "named" that throws it off, because this sounds fine.]
`cards with the card type of "Forward".`

Author: I think if we don't include the word "named" people might think there are card types with an inherent property that makes them "Forward" card types. How about this:

```suggestion
searches for the cards of a card type named "Forward".
```

`card:1`\
searches for cards by card type number, e.g. to find the second cloze
deletion for a note, you’d use `card:2`

`note:basic`\

> searches for cards with a note type named "Basic".

Reviewer: This has the same issue as above -- it's just a little bit off, but for a slightly different reason.

Some other options:
cards with the note type "Basic".
cards created by note type "Basic".

Author: ```suggestion
searches for cards created with a note type named "Basic".
```

I'm using "with" because it is the user who will be creating these cards.

Reviewer: I am not sure that clarifies things, especially since the reasoning runs counter to one of the primary concepts the manual needs to emphasize for users. 
> ... in Anki we add notes rather than cards, and Anki creates cards for us.

https://docs.ankiweb.net/editing.html#adding-cards-and-notes

## Ignoring accents/combining characters

> Requires Anki 2.1.24+ or AnkiMobile 2.0.60+.

Reviewer: Is there an AnkiDroid version that could be added here to complete the page?

Author: ```suggestion
Requires Anki 2.1.24+, AnkiMobile 2.0.60+ or AnkiDroid 2.17+.
```

Anki 2.1.24+, AnkiMobile 2.0.60+ and AnkiDroid 2.17+ support searching in notes with "regular expressions",
a standard and powerful way of searching in text.

> Start a search with `re:` to search using regular expression. To make things easier, Anki will

Reviewer: If changing "by" to "using," the plural sounds more accurate. I can't explain why. 
`search using regular expressions.`

Author: ```suggestion
Start a search with `re:` to search using regular expressions. To make things easier, Anki will
```

I agree with you.

treat the following as [raw input](#raw-input), so bear in mind the rules listed there.

Some examples:

`"re:(some|another).*thing"`\
finds notes that have "some" or "another" on them, followed by 0 or more characters, and then "thing".

`re:\d{3}`\
finds notes that have 3 digits in a row.

Regular expressions can also be limited to a specific field. Please note that unlike the normal searches
in a specific field, regular expressions in fields don't require an exact match:

`front:re:[a-c]1`\
matches uppercase or lowercase a1, B1 or c1 that occurs anywhere in the "Front" field.

`front:re:^[a-c]1$`\
same as previous, but will not match if any other text falls before or after a1/b1/c1.

> Anki 2.1.50+ supports regular expressions for tags:

Reviewer: Are there AnkiMobile and AnkiDroid versions that could be added here?

Author: AnkiDroid 2.17 probably, I'm not sure about AnkiMobile. @dae?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this is exposed by AnkiMobile yet.

`tag:re:^parent$`\
finds notes with the exact tag "parent", disregarding any child tags like "parent::child".

`"tag:re:lesson-(1[7-9]|2[0-5])"`\
finds notes with tags "lesson-17" through "lesson-25".

For more information on regular expressions, see [this website](<https://regexone.com/lesson/introduction_abcs>).

Some things to be aware of:

- The search is case-insensitive by default; use `(?-i)` at the start to turn on case sensitivity.
- Some text like spaces and newlines may be represented differently in HTML - you can
  use the HTML editor in the editing screen to see the underlying HTML contents.
- For the specifics of Anki's regex support, see the [regex crate documentation]
(<https://docs.rs/regex/1.3.9/regex/#syntax>)

## Card state

`is:due`\
review cards and learning cards waiting to be studied.

`is:new`\
new cards.

`is:learn`\
cards in learning.

`is:review`\
reviews (both due and not due) and lapsed cards.

`is:suspended`\

> cards that have been automatically or manually suspended.

Reviewer: Can this line and the next (241) match? Either phrasing is fine.

Author: I was about to follow your advice here, but I remembered that some of the variability is intentional. It is a bit boring to read a text if everything seems to be using some sort of parallel syntax. I don't think this should be changed.

Reviewer: Responded above at line 41.

Author: I have resolved the other conversation as the explanation itself was confusing. For this one, I want to ask @dae why the original phrasing was different for is:suspended and is:burued? The docs are created in your vision so I'd like to get your feedback first.

Reviewer 2: I can't remember any specific reason for the differing wording, and don't have strong feelings here.

`is:buried`\
cards that have been buried, either [automatically](studying.md#siblings-and-burying) or
manually.

> Note that with the [v2 scheduler](https://faqs.ankiweb.net/the-anki-2.1-scheduler.html),

Reviewer: I think it's great to catch this sentence up with the times! Unfortunately, it now sort of sounds like that is only a feature of the (no longer supported) v2 scheduler, and doesn't necessarily carry forward to v3. 

`Note that as of the [v2 scheduler](https://faqs.ankiweb.net/the-anki-2.1-scheduler.html), Anki distinguishes`
`Note that starting with the [v2 scheduler](https://faqs.ankiweb.net/the-anki-2.1-scheduler.html), Anki distinguishes`

[On the other hand, this is a very strange place for this information -- a note about unburying in the middle of a section about search syntax. It might be better to move this to wherever unburying is documented.]

Anki now distinguishes between manually and automatically buried cards so you can
unbury one set without the other.

Cards that have lapsed fall into several of these categories, so it may
be useful to combine them to get more precise results:

`is:learn is:review`\
cards that have lapsed and are awaiting relearning.

`-is:learn is:review`\
review cards, not including lapsed cards.

`is:learn -is:review`\
cards that are in learning for the first time.

`flag:1`\
cards with a red flag.

`flag:2`\
cards with an orange flag.

`flag:3`\
cards with a green flag.

`flag:4`\
cards with a blue flag.

`flag:5`\
cards with a pink flag.

`flag:6`\
cards with a turquoise flag.

`flag:7`\
cards with a purple flag.

## Card properties

`prop:ivl>=10`\
cards with interval of 10 days or more.

`prop:due=1`\
cards due tomorrow.

`prop:due=-1`\
cards due yesterday that haven’t been answered yet.

`prop:due>-1 prop:due<1`\
cards due between yesterday and tomorrow.

`prop:reps<10`\
cards that have been answered less than 10 times.

`prop:lapses>3`\
cards that have moved into relearning more than 3 times.

`prop:ease!=2.5`\
cards easier or harder than default.

`prop:cdn:d>5`\

> cards with the value of `d` in custom data (usually refers to difficulty in FSRS) greater than 5 (requires Anki 2.1.64+).

Reviewer: I think capitalizing "Difficulty" is correct here, since it's referring to one of the titled values of FSRS.

Author: We don't capitalise DSR in the statistics screen of app. Here is the part of Sherlock's essay where he doesn't capitalise these terms: [Spaced Repetition Algorithm](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/fsrs4anki/wiki/Spaced-Repetition-Algorithm:-A-Three%E2%80%90Day-Journey-from-Novice-to-Expert#:~:text=Below%20are%20some%20empirical%20observations%20from%20Wozniak%2C%20corroborated%20by%20data%20from%20language%20learning%20platforms%20like%20MaiMemo%3A)

Anki 2.1.24+, AnkiMobile 2.0.60+ and AnkiDroid 2.17+ support searching in notes with "regular expressions",
a standard and powerful way of searching in text.

Start a search with `re:` to search using regular expressions. To make things easier, Anki will
treat the following as [raw input](#raw-input), so bear in mind the rules listed there.

Some examples:

`"re:(some|another).*thing"`\
finds notes that have "some" or "another" on them, followed by 0 or more characters, and then "thing".

`re:\d{3}`\
finds notes that have 3 digits in a row.

Regular expressions can also be limited to a specific field. Please note that unlike the normal searches
in a specific field, regular expressions in fields don't require an exact match:

`front:re:[a-c]1`\
matches uppercase or lowercase a1, B1 or c1 that occurs anywhere in the "Front" field.

`front:re:^[a-c]1$`\

> same as previous, but will not match if any other text falls before or after a1/b1/c1.

Author: ```suggestion
same as the previous example, but will not match if any other text falls before or after a1/b1/c1.
```

`is:new`\
new cards.

`is:learn`\
cards in learning.

`is:review`\
reviews (both due and not due) and lapsed cards.

`is:suspended`\
cards that have been [automatically](leeches.md) or manually suspended.

`is:buried`\
cards that have been buried, either [automatically](studying.md#siblings-and-burying) or
manually.

Cards that have [lapsed](deck-options.md#lapses) fall into several of the previous categories, so it may
be useful to combine different search terms to get more precise results:

`is:learn is:review`\
cards that have lapsed and are awaiting relearning.

`-is:learn is:review`\
review cards, not including lapsed cards.

`is:learn -is:review`\
cards that are in learning for the first time.

## Flags

`flag:1`\
cards with a red flag.

`flag:2`\
cards with an orange flag.

`flag:3`\
cards with a green flag.

`flag:4`\
cards with a blue flag.

`flag:5`\
cards with a pink flag.

`flag:6`\
cards with a turquoise flag.

`flag:7`\
cards with a purple flag.

## Card properties

`prop:ivl>=10`\
cards with interval of 10 days or more.

`prop:due=1`\
cards due tomorrow.

`prop:due=-1`\
cards due yesterday that haven’t been answered yet.

> `prop:due>1`\
> all cards due in the future, including tomorrow.
> 
> `prop:due<-1`\
> all  overdue cards

Reviewer: This just caught my eye as I was catching up on comments. 

```suggestion
`prop:due>=1`\
all cards due in the future, including tomorrow.

`prop:due<=-1`\
all  overdue cards
```

> all cards due in the past (that haven't been answered yet), including yesterday.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
all  overdue cards
```

`edited:n`\
cards where the note text was added/edited in the last n days.

This requires Anki 2.1.28+ or AnkiMobile 2.0.64+.

### Answered

`rated:1`\
cards answered today.

`rated:1:2`\
cards answered Hard (2) today.

`rated:7:1`\
cards answered Again (1) in the last 7 days.

`rated:31:4`\
cards answered Easy (4) in the last 31 days.

Anki 2.1.39+ supports rating searches over 31 days.

### First Answered

Requires Anki 2.1.45+.

`introduced:1`\
cards answered for the first time today.

`introduced:365`\
cards answered for the first time within the last 365 days.

## Matching special characters

If you're using a version earlier than Anki 2.1.36 the following searches may not work.

As shown in the previous section, some characters like `*`, `_` and `"` have a
special meaning in search. If you need to locate those characters in a search,

> you need to tell Anki not to treat them specially. This is called escaping a character and is primarily done by using double quotes and backslashes.

Reviewer: `"escaping" `
or
`"escaping a character"`

Author: ```suggestion
you need to tell Anki not to treat them specially. This is called "escaping a character" and is primarily done by using double quotes and backslashes.
```

As shown in the previous section, some characters like `*`, `_` and `"` have a
special meaning in search. If you need to locate those characters in a search,
you need to tell Anki not to treat them specially. This is called "escaping a character" and is primarily done by using double quotes and backslashes.

>   

Reviewer 2: Intentional?

Author: It's not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

  use `\\` instead of `\`.

- `(` and `)`\
  You can search for parentheses by enclosing the entire term in quotes,
   by using a backslash, or both at the same time. For example, `"(text)"`, `\(text\)` and

>   `"\(text\)"` are all equivalent searches, and searches for `(text)`.

Reviewer: At the end, this should be:
`and search for `(text)`.`

But I don't agree with removing the more detailed examples that include "some" (unless they were incorrect in some way I'm not seeing?). I think they illustrate well that the entire term needs to be enclosed.

Author: ```suggestion
  `"\(text\)"` are all equivalent searches, and search for `(text)`.
```
I believe the reader, if he has read other parts of this page/section will already understand what 'entire term' means. A simpler example is better here.

- `-`\
  Starting a search term with `-` usually inverts it: `-dog` matches everything
  except dog for example. If you instead wish to include an actual hyphen,
  you can either use a backslash, or include the text in quotes. For example,
  `\-free` or `"-free"` will match "guilt-free" and "cruelty-free".

- `:`\
  Colons have to be escaped using backslashes unless they are preceded by another, unescaped colon.

>   For example, `w:3:30` searches for 3:30 on word boundary and doesn't require you to use a backslash.

Reviewer: Should use quotation marks, to match other examples:
`searches for "3:30" on word boundary`

Author: ```suggestion
  For example, `w:3:30` searches for "3:30" on word boundary and doesn't require you to use a backslash.
```
